Here's a C/C++ specific refactoring.

I was just editing a large C program (CVS actually).

It containing many instances of C strings - "C strings". Fortunately, at least it used #define as a level of indirection:

  #define CVSADM "CVS"

I wanted to allow this string (and its relatives) to be changed by the user. Accomplished by refactoring the string to a function:

  #define CVSADM get_CVSADM()
  extern char* get_CVSADM();
  ...
  char* get_CVSADM() { return "CVS"; }

''Pardon my ignorant nature, but what was wrong with the original define? And if you *must* change it, why not make it a static const char[]?''

This *almost* worked. It failed where the original code contained
 
  sizeof CVSADM

Unfortunately, it compiled, but failed to execute correctly. Fortunately, CVS had tests - not unit tests, but tests nevertheless.

Globally changing all of these sizeofs to

  sizeof_CVSADM

with

  #define sizeof_CVSADM  (strlen(get_CVSADM()+1)

completes the refactoring. (At least, all of the tests pass.)

----

Moral: sizeof impedes syntactically transparent refactorings.

----

Careful:
While this works, it's very close to a very common error.
See number 10 of

The Top 10 Ways to get screwed by the "C" programming language by Dave Dyer
http://www.andromeda.com/people/ddyer/topten.html

----

Another related gotcha, refactoring C static strings to dynamic strings returned
by a function or method: *static* *string* *concatenation*.

The ANSI C standard requires two adjacent string literals to be combined:
	"string1" "string2"
becomes
	"string1string2"

When the static string literal is replaced by a function, this breaks. It must be replaced by something that can concatenate dynamic strings. Unfortunately, in ordinary C, there is no standard such function, because of memory management issues. In C++, one can refactor to

	string(get_string1())+"string2"

i.e. using C++ strings rather than C "srings" (char*). (Converting back to C strings by adding .c_str() to the above works in some circumstances.)

Many folks have added kluge-like support for this sort of thing to C, e.g. 
	char* thisstrcat(char* s1, char* s2) {
	static buf[1024];
	strcpy(buf,s1);
	strcat(buf,s2);
	return buf;
	}
but such kluges do not work in all circumstances - e.g. you cannot call the version of thisstrcat above twice in an expression.

----

Problems with the above code snippet:

1. It may introduce a buffer overflow, because buf is fixed-size but
the size of the concatenation of s1 and s2 is not checked to be less
than or equal to the size of buf.

2. It violates the ZeroOneInfinity rule by using a fixed-size buffer,
which means strings of arbitrary size cannot be concatenated.  A
general-purpose concatenation function should allow for arbitrary size
by dynamically allocating the right amout of memory using malloc.

3. Mixing strcpy and strcat in repetitive statements may lead to bugs
if the order of the statements is changed but you forget to change the
strcpy and strcat parts.  Eg, before:

	char buf[100];
	strlcpy(buf, "my program - ", sizeof(buf));
	strlcat(buf, filename, sizeof(buf));

after:

	char buf[100];
	strlcat(buf, filename, sizeof(buf));  /* WRONG! */
	strlcpy(buf, "- my program", sizeof(buf));  /* also wrong */

a better way to say the same thing, avoiding the problem:

	char buf[100];
	strlcpy(buf, "", sizeof(buf));
	strlcat(buf, "my program - ", sizeof(buf));
	strlcat(buf, filename, sizeof(buf));

Note how in the last example the strlcat() statements are trivially
interchangeable.  There is a general pattern here: first the resource
is initialized (strlcpy the empty string into the buffer), then it is
modified (strlcat arbitrary strings into the buffer).  Combined
initialize-and-modify functions (strlcpy an arbitrary string into a
buffer) are harmful, as they waste mental effort and may lead to bugs
when changing the order of the modification statements.

4. The function returns a pointer to a statically allocated buffer
that will be overwritten by subsequent calls, which (a) is not
thread-safe, and (b) messes up statements such as

	printf("%s %s", thisstrcat("foo", "bar"), thisstrcat("baz", "qux"));

strlcpy and strlcat are from the OpenBSD C library, but can be
implemented in portable C.  Note that the standard C strncpy and
strncat functions are very easy to get wrong, because they are not
guaranteed to null-terminate a non-zero-length buffer.  This is almost
certainly a design mistake.  Never use strcpy, strcat, strncpy, or
strncat.  Always use strlcpy and strlcat instead.

A better routine, doing the same thing as thisstrcat above, follows.

Noteworthy properties of the code below.

1. Define an stdarg function handling an arbitrary number of args, but
export wrappers specifying a fixed number of args as the public
interface.  Reaps the benefits of stdarg flexibility and fixed arg
safety (unlike with stdarg, the compiler can verify the arg count and
arg types in calls to the function).

2. Use the preprocessor to redefine the names of bug-prone functions
into do_not_use to make sure we don't accidentally call them out of
habit later in code where they are no longer needed.

3. Use of the unsigned size_t type to store counts and sizes.

4. Test for integer overflow when adding together buffer sizes.

5. We waste a little memory and CPU time by counting the null
terminator of each individual string into bufsize, and by using things
like strlcpy(buf, "", bufsize);.  I aim at ease of auditing and
monotonicity (use only one idiom for one action, such as strlcpy to
initialize a string buffer, even if it's not the fastest one in a
particular case).  I sacrifice (negligible) machine resources to
attain these goals.

6. In main(), I assume that printf() handles null args gracefully by
printing "(null)".  I don't know whether this is portable.  main()
leaks memory by not freeing the dynamically allocated strings.  In a
long-running program you'd probably want to free() the strings, but
contrary to popular insistence it is pointless to free every resource
when the resources reclaimed by freeing them cannot be put into new
uses.  For example, in a short-running program the memory from free()
will probably not be given back to the operating system by the malloc
implementation, and the operating system will reclaim the memory soon
anyway when the program dies.

	#include <limits.h>
	#include <stdarg.h>
	#include <stdlib.h>
	#include <string.h>

	#define strcpy do_not_use
	#define strcat do_not_use
	#define strncpy do_not_use
	#define strncat do_not_use

	static char *strdupv(size_t count, ...)
	{
	char *buf;
	const char *str;
	size_t bufsize;
	size_t strsize;
	size_t i;
	va_list ap;

	bufsize = 0;
	va_start(ap, count);
	for(i = 0; i < count; ++i) {
		str = va_arg(ap, const char *);
		strsize = strlen(str) + 1;
		if(strsize > (SIZE_MAX - bufsize)) return(0);
		bufsize += strsize;
	}
	va_end(ap);
	buf = malloc(bufsize);
	if(!buf) return(0);
	strlcpy(buf, "", bufsize);
	va_start(ap, count);
	for(i = 0; i < count; ++i) {
		str = va_arg(ap, const char *);
		strlcat(buf, str, bufsize);
	}
	va_end(ap);
	return(buf);
	}

	char *strdup2(const char *s1, const char *s0)
	{
	return(strdupv(2, s1, s0));
	}

	char *strdup3(const char *s2, const char *s1, const char *s0)
	{
	return(strdupv(3, s2, s1, s0));
	}

	// and so on

	#define strdupv do_not_use

	// library code ends, user code goes below this point

	#include <stdio.h>

	int main()
	{
	printf("%s\n", strdup2("", ""));
	printf("%s\n", strdup2("abc", ""));
	printf("%s\n", strdup2("", "def"));
	printf("%s\n", strdup3("hello", " ", "world"));
	printf("%s %s\n", strdup2("foo", "bar"), strdup2("baz", "qux"));
	return(0);
	}

	// $ gcc -std=c99 -pedantic -Wall -g -o strdupv strdupv.c
	// $ ./strdupv
	//
	// abc
	// def
	// hello world
	// foobar bazqux
	// $

----

Moral: C++ strings are easier to refactor than C strings.

Moral: the distinction between compile time and run time operations interferes with refactorings that convert between static and dynamic values.

Moral: If you change the meaning of a #define, you must inspect ''every'' use of that #define before checking in. Which is why #define's are kind of smelly, right there. --MichaelGates

Sizeof and adjacent string concatenation are compile time operators. Strlen and strcat (with memory allocation) are run time operators that almost, but not exactly, correspond.

Refactoring is easier if (a) compile time and run time use the same language, operators, etc. Or, at least (b) if they have equivalent operators.

----
See RefactoringBetweenCompileTimeAndRunTimeOperations,
SyntacticallyTransparentRefactorings,
CeePreprocessorStatements

